>>GEORGE NOORY: Welcome
to Beyond Belief.
I'm George Noory.
We have a very special guest
for you in this program.
His name is William
Henry, and William
has been a guest
of mine on Coast
to Coast for 13
years now, dealing
with all kinds of
mythological stories.
He is an investigative
mythologist,
and he is also a
regular guest and host
on a lot of Gaia TV programs.
William, welcome
to Beyond Belief.
>>WILLIAM HENRY:
Thank you, George.
Pleasure to be here.
>>NOORY: When we call you an
investigative mythologist, what
is that?
>>HENRY: Well, it's
kind of like being
an investigative journalist,
except my specialty
is mythology, ancient
stories, especially stories
about human transformation.
I love these stories where a
human is taken into the stars
and transformed into an angel
and brought back to Earth.
So I just started calling myself
an investigative mythologist
to separate myself and
to narrow my focus.
>>NOORY: It is amazing work.
Do you find that what happened
in the ancient times is still
happening today?
>>HENRY: Absolutely.
I mean, we find so much of it is
cyclical of what we experience.
It's because of the
archetypal nature of humanity.
There's certain
stories or dramas
that we're always enacting.
And this is the hero's journey
as they call it in Hollywood,
where we just keep recycling the
same story over and over again.
And that's the value
of investigating
these ancient stories,
is to find a way
to navigate our way
through the story
and have a more
successful outcome.
>>NOORY: You taught me
about stargates and portals.
I had no idea what
they were right.
And then I started investigating
what you were talking about,
what you were writing
about in your books.
And I'm going whoa,
there are actually
stargates, portals
to other universes.
It's amazing.
>>HENRY: Those were
such exciting days.
I mean, you're going
back to 2002 or so,
Saddam Hussein looking for
the Stargate of the Anunnaki
and so forth.
>>NOORY: He was
obsessed with that.
>>HENRY: Obsessed with
it, as many of us were.
We had watched the movie
"Stargate" and "Contact,"
and we wondered, is it is
it true that there were
ancient portals and gateways?
And it turns out the
mythic tradition,
the sacred literature
is loaded with stories
of portals, vortexes, and
stargates, and even wormholes.
>>NOORY: I have a guest that
appears on Coast to Coast
regularly.
His name's David Paulides.
And he's written a
book about people that
disappear in our park systems.
A parent could be
with their child,
who is two feet behind him.
He turns and the
kid is gone right.
An animal didn't grab him.
You would have heard the
screaming, the yelling, right?
The sound of the animal.
They're just gone.
It was because of
what you've taught me
about portals and stargates that
led me to believe in the theory
that maybe in some
of these park systems
there are these portals, and
the kid just walked right
into one--
>>HENRY: Absolutely.
>>NOORY: And he can't walk back.
He's gone.
>>HENRY: Right.
It's incredible.
Yeah, the idea is the
portals and stargates
operate on frequency.
Sort of like our radio.
I mean, if we're walking along,
we're tuned to one station,
we're experiencing one reality.
But if we just slightly
turn the dial either way,
we're in a different frequency,
in a different reality.
>>NOORY: You pick up
my radio show, then.
>>HENRY: Well, exactly.
>>NOORY: When somebody walks
through a stargate, what's
on the other side?
>>HENRY: Well, it depends.
I mean, you can take a stargate
that will lead you to a point
beyond Earth, maybe
another star system,
perhaps another dimension,
even a whole other galaxy.
>>NOORY: Now you're
dealing with something
called ascension phenomenon.
>>HENRY: Yes.
>>NOORY: What is that?
>>HENRY: Well,
ascension is something
the ancients were obsessed
with, this idea that humans
can cross over the boundary
between the material
and the immaterial realm,
between Earth and heaven.
It used to be, in
the Old Testament,
for example, that if God
wanted you to come to heaven,
he'd send you an invitation and
open the pearly gates for you.
>>NOORY: A one-way trip.
>>HENRY: A one-way trip.
But then there was
a revolution that
started to happen
around 600 BC or so,
where humans started to
say, well, wait a minute.
We can take it upon ourselves
to transform ourselves,
to purify ourselves,
to perfect ourselves,
and to ascend to the
level of the gods,
and that humans, in fact,
can open the doors and gates
to heaven on their own.
>>NOORY: Do you have to be
spiritual or pure in order
to create that ascension?
>>HENRY: I believe that you do.
I mean, there are two schools.
One, that you can pry open the
door through some kind of maybe
magic or even technology.
The traditional image of
the stargate from the movies
is that flesh and blood is
going through a stargate,
like in the movies, they can
take their bodies with them,
or even take a nuclear missile,
which I don't believe in.
Or, the alternative
is that you have
to fundamentally
transform the body
into a next level of vibration.
They call it the light
body, the ascension
body, the resurrection body.
This is what Jesus did.
He took his flesh
and blood body--
>>NOORY: He went
up into this cloud.
>>HENRY: Exactly.
Rearranged it, upgraded
the vibration of the body,
transformed it into
a body of light,
and now exists in another realm.
>>NOORY: Did he do
that on his own,
or did something else very
spiritual do that to him?
>>HENRY: Well, kind
of a confluence,
really, because
there are factors
where he had tremendous yogic
powers that he had developed
in his travels in the East.
But also there was an
oil that was involved,
an anointing oil that has
very mysterious powers.
This goes back to
the story of Enoch,
a pre-flood sage,
maybe an Atlantean,
who's taken into the heavens
by the archangel Michael.
This is an ascension story.
And Michael anoints
Enoch's body with an oil,
and it dissolves into
rainbow-colored light,
so now his body matches the
celestial flesh of the angels.
I mean, think about
that, that there's
an oil that could
dissolve our body.
>>NOORY: Something that would be
readily available on the planet
here?
>>HENRY: Not readily available.
But certainly sages like Mary
Magdalene was a noted perfumer
and an oil expert,
and she is the one
who applied this
oil that may have
been involved in the dissolving
of Jesus's body into light.
>>NOORY: That's interesting.
Which created the
Shroud of Turin.
>>HENRY: Exactly.
That's an icon of that event.
>>NOORY: You have said for
years that we are light beings.
>>HENRY: Yes.
>>NOORY: What does that mean?
>>HENRY: Well,
what that means is
that we all have a true
nature that is essentially
a being of light.
And in the Gnostic perspective
and other enlightenment
traditions, they teach that
our primordial light body
form actually manifests the
flesh and blood physical body,
where we're said to be
made in the image of God.
And the image of God isn't one
of these humanoid-type forms.
Rather it's this
light body form.
In Tibet they call it the
rainbow body of light.
And it's described in artwork
as a five-colored light body
that we can all manifest.
We all have it within us.
It's essentially
covered over by--
they call it false
perceptions of the Earth life
and of our flesh
and blood existence.
>>NOORY: Why does it seem
that meditation brings out
more powers within our body?
>>HENRY: Well, meditation
stills the mind
and it opens the heart.
And this is where our
true spiritual capacities
and true spiritual powers dwell.
>>NOORY: My little
five-year-old granddaughter is
into meditation--
>>HENRY: Good for her.
>>NOORY: And yoga.
My daughter-in-law sent
me a picture of her.
And you know, she's
only about this tall,
and she's sitting down
with her eyes closed
and their hands like this,
sitting down, of course.
And you could tell, though--
you could almost see,
William, a light around her.
It was really weird.
>>HENRY: Yeah, I'm sure you can.
>>NOORY: And I don't know
if she was generating that
or whether I was able to
see it in the photograph,
but it seems like in that
kind of state of mind,
you illuminate more.
>>HENRY: Absolutely.
And that's what they
describe, again,
as our true nature,
this light being,
that you can perceive
it, and you can certainly
feel it coming off some people.
And the object of the
spiritual traditions
is to take our emphasis
off the flesh and blood
and put it on perfecting
the light body,
or connecting with
the light body.
>>NOORY: How important
is the thought process
to get into that state of
mind to be able to do that?
>>HENRY: Well, it's everything,
really, because ascension
is another word for wholeness.
And our human quest is to become
and feel more whole, more holy,
more complete.
And so as you tap into this--
I call it ascension
intelligence--
you're actually tapping into the
same intelligence of the angels
and the sages and the
enlightened beings.
So just by committing to
the path of wholeness,
now you're opening
up whole new avenues
within your consciousness.
>>NOORY: There was a
movie called "Lucy"
where it dealt with all kinds
of things with the brain
and altering the brain.
>>HENRY: Right.
Yeah.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Are you sure you
need such huge doses?
I'm afraid you won't survive.
- Some cells inside me
will fight and defend
their integrity
till the very end.
In order to attain
the last few percent,
I have to force it to crack the
cells open to their nucleus.
- This knowledge, Lucy.
I'm not even sure that
mankind is ready for it.
We're so driven by
power and profit.
Given man's nature,
it might bring us
only instability and chaos.
- Ignorance brings
chaos, not knowledge.
I'll build a computer and
all my knowledge in it.
I'll find a way for you
to have access to it.
- Yeah.
I just hope we will be
worthy of your sacrifice.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: And I guess
she was making reference
to the power of
her brain, right?
>>HENRY: Yes, she was,
the expanded capacities
of the human brain.
And there's a wonderful
sequence in the movie where
I think she's at like
40%, and she actually
dissolves into the rainbow body.
And I thought the
producers of the film
did a great job of showing that.
>>NOORY: How would
they get that?
How would they understand that?
>>HENRY: How would the
producers understand that?
Sometimes in the
creative areas, they just
download stuff without
having any awareness of what
they're really talking about.
Having worked some
in Hollywood, I
know some actors
are deeply into some
of the Gnostic or esoteric
arts, and they intentionally
will put some of these ideas
and concepts in their films.
But other times, I think
they're just getting lucky.
>>NOORY: Well, you know,
I've known you for years.
You've always been
upbeat, full of energy.
I've never seen you down.
You're a human being.
I am sure you have ups and
downs in your personal life.
But you always seem
to be ascending.
How do you get yourself
into that state of mind?
>>HENRY: Well, one, I do
believe in reincarnation.
But I also recognize the
preciousness of this life.
We have a finite time
in these earthly bodies.
>>NOORY: Goes by too fast.
>>HENRY: It goes by so fast.
Way too fast.
And so why not utilize
this time to reach
as high as you possibly can?
Maybe I won't turn
myself into an angel,
but if that's my North
Star, then that's
going to guide my life.
And I feel like a lot
of people are like ships
asail on the ocean,
maybe lost, and they
are looking for that North
Star to guide themselves by.
And for me the North Star is
humans can become an angel.
The Essenes taught this.
This is the foundational
idea of early Christianity.
The Buddhists had the same idea.
So over and over again in
these spiritual traditions,
they are always
insisting, hey, you
appear to connect
yourself with this body,
but there's actually a greater
self that's awaiting awakening.
>>NOORY: What does this
tell you about life itself?
I mean, why are we here?
Why were we created?
And what is this tie-in with
this energy and portals and all
that?
>>HENRY: Well, I
think we're here
as agents of our creator
to love one another
and to be messages
of God's love.
>>NOORY: Is this
the big test for us?
>>HENRY: That's the big test.
Oh, absolutely, absolutely.
Going back to the
ancient Egyptians,
they already apprehended
that 5,000 years ago,
that all of life is a test.
And ultimately our heart will
be weighed against the feather
of cosmic truth.
And if our heart weighs
less than the feather,
we continue on the
spiral of evolution
into greater cosmic beinghood.
If not, there's a
recycling program,
and we keep doing it
over and over again
until we awaken the
power of the heart.
>>NOORY: Some people
are passing the test.
A lot of people aren't.
>>HENRY: That's right.
And then others pass
the test and come back
to assist others
to pass the test.
So it's a continuous cycle
of evolution in that way.
It's beautiful.
>>NOORY: A lot of
people will ask
me, tell me about telepathy.
Tell me about this
connection that we all have.
And I simply say,
we're all connected.
It's a wireless universe
where William Henry's on it,
George Noory's on it, so
many other people are on it.
What is this tie-in with
this cosmic intelligence?
What is this all about?
>>HENRY: Well, it's fascinating.
I mean, there's
archaeologists-- in fact,
one here in Boulder,
Colorado that
claims that there's
archaeological evidence
of the development
of a super brain,
the activation of our neocortex,
no later than 75,000 years ago.
Something happened
75,000 years ago
that sparked the activation
of our neocortex.
They don't know if it was
cooking food, cooking meat,
psychedelic substances, some
kind of cosmic rays coming
from the center of the galaxy,
or Cygnus, or wherever.
>>NOORY: Maybe not
the brain at all.
>>HENRY: Maybe not
But something caused us
to activate our neocortex
and join our brains together
in a collective super brain.
And that's what enables us
to read each other's minds
and have empathy and
connect with one another.
>>NOORY: You believe
in good and bad.
>>HENRY: I do.
>>NOORY: Evil
forces, good forces.
Are they constantly at odds?
>>HENRY: Always.
Yes, absolutely.
And that's what makes
this universe go around.
That's that image
of the caduceus,
where you have the two serpents
entwined around a central rod.
But the ultimate goal is to get
them to harmonize in the sun
disk or the light disk on top.
And that's kind of where
we're at right now,
is you have these conflicting
forces that are locked up
and spitting at one another.
And our goal as
a civilization is
to get them to both say
yes to the same thing.
And what I'm thinking
we need to say yes to
is the ascension of
the human species
to move beyond homo sapiens
into the next better
version of ourselves.
>>NOORY: What could
that next version be?
>>HENRY: There's two choices.
One, we're going to evolve into
spiritual light beings, which
millions of people around the
world now are practicing yoga,
doing meditation.
For the first time in
history, simultaneously,
millions of people
getting together
and developing their
spiritual powers.
That's one path.
The other path could
be through technology,
where we're going to start
applying the best of Silicon
Valley technology
into our human body,
and augmenting our intelligence
through nanotechnology,
and other technologies
that vastly
amplify the power of our
brain and our consciousness.
>>NOORY: That'll be
dramatic, I think.
The technology, if it
keeps at this pace,
will be absolutely dramatic.
>>HENRY: Yes.
And we will see a
dramatic increase
in this, and revelation
of it, within five years.
Within 10 years, 20
years at the most,
we will not recognize our world.
We will see robots everywhere.
>>NOORY: Doing everything.
>>HENRY: Doing everything.
Most people will be unemployed.
>>NOORY: I'm not getting into
a driverless car, William.
I'm not doing it.
>>HENRY: You'll never get me
up in one of those things.
>>NOORY: You're sitting the
back seat and something fails.
Technology fails.
>>HENRY: It does.
>>NOORY: What happens?
You're up a creek.
>>HENRY: You're up
a creek, exactly.
It's happening so
fast, and most people
are unaware of the development
of artificial intelligence,
for example, and how
our culture is now
completely dependent on
artificial intelligence.
Any time you're online,
whenever you're making a phone
call with your smart phone,
when you're buying something
on Amazon or Netflix,
you're utilizing
artificial intelligence.
And it's only
increasing in its power.
>>NOORY: Fast food stores now
are experimenting with robots
bringing you your food.
I mean, you're right.
They are going to
replace human beings.
What's going to happen to
society if unemployment
triples, for example?
>>HENRY: It will
more than triple.
As much as 90% of us
will not have a job.
We're talking lawyers,
doctors especially.
>>NOORY: That's not good.
>>HENRY: Well, exactly.
And we haven't considered
the ramifications of that.
Nor have the powers
that be, our leaders,
let us in on that this
is what's happening.
And this is within 10 years.
>>NOORY: I mean, you'd have a
robot represent you in court,
for example?
>>HENRY: Yeah.
You'll go to a
doctor, and the doctor
will be an artificial
intelligent entity.
>>NOORY: He'll plug
something in and say
exactly what's wrong with
you and give you a remedy.
>>HENRY: Exactly.
Now this could be really
good for some people.
If you live in a rural area,
or if you're in a third world
country, for example, where
there aren't very many doctors.
That would be
wonderful for them.
So there are upsides to this.
But--
>>NOORY: The robot would be
a cheap date to take out,
wouldn't it?
>>HENRY: Well,
that's where you're
going to see the real robot
revolution as with the sexbots.
And already in the EU
there's legislation in place
where you can marry your robot.
And robots have right.
>>NOORY: You've
got to be kidding.
>>HENRY: No, I'm not.
Robots have rights.
>>NOORY: Prenups?
>>HENRY: Yes, prenups.
Robots have rights.
So they can tax them.
>>NOORY: Do you think
artificial intelligence will
get to the point--
and we've seen movies
where these robots communicate
with you, they reason with you,
they have emotion with you.
They could even violate
the laws of Isaac Asimov
and do things they're
not supposed to do.
Will it come down to that?
>>HENRY: Yes.
And the question is how soon.
And one of the
answers is they think
it could be as soon
as 2020 where we will
see what you're describing.
>>NOORY: That's
just in a few years.
>>HENRY: That's right.
They call that artificial
general intelligence,
where the machines are as
smart as humans or smarter.
And then the next step is-- and
this is the big, scary part--
is artificial super
intelligence, where
the machines are just a little
bit smarter than humans,
or perhaps a billion
times smarter than humans,
and they have their own agendas.
They set their own goals.
>>NOORY: What would be
interesting is interviewing
a robot, sitting where you're
sitting, doing a Beyond Belief
show, conducting an interview
with a robot who would actually
reason and answer.
>>HENRY: This
happened in Sweden,
where an artificially
intelligent bot was
interviewed.
And the bot said,
well, give us a chance.
Give robots a chance.
You might really like us,
and you can benefit from us.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
That was the robot's opinion?
>>HENRY: Yes.
That's the artificially
intelligent robot's opinion.
That's what they're
saying, give us a chance.
>>NOORY: That's scary.
>>HENRY: It's very scary.
And most people are unaware
of how advanced it is
and how pervasive it is.
And it's only going to get
more and more pervasive.
>>NOORY: Will they
get to the point
where they will be able to
build things on their own?
>>HENRY: They already are.
They're writing
their own algorithms,
and this is a big problem.
They're a black box
now, where scientists
say we don't understand how
the AI entities are coming up
with their conclusions.
And in fact, there's
now, again, in the EU,
legislation that says
a human has the right
to demand that the entity reveal
how it came to its conclusions,
because right now, they're
beyond our control,
and beyond our understanding.
>>NOORY: There's got to be a
dark side to this, William.
>>HENRY: That's what
we're talking about here.
Is this artificial intelligence
alien intelligence?
Did it come from somewhere else?
It's certainly contact
with a new alien entity.
So there's a very
dark side of this,
where these machines are making
decisions for and about humans.
And humans have no
idea how they're
coming to these conclusions.
So the next step is where
the artificially intelligent
entities begin to make plans
and programs for humanity,
and that's where it
gets really scary.
And my solution
to this is that we
have to develop our
ascension intelligence,
another form of AI.
We all have these yogic
abilities within us,
telekinesis, the ability to--
>>NOORY: Telepathy, everything.
>>HENRY: Mind over matter.
And as we develop these
aspects of our consciousness,
I think what we'll
find is we don't
need artificial intelligence.
We can use our own
ascended intelligence
to build a better civilization.
>>NOORY: And if we do
that, how far can we go?
>>HENRY: Well,
that's the question.
I mean, it's unlimited
where we can go.
And that's why
movies like "Lucy"
are so phenomenal,
because they start
to paint this picture
that hey, wait a minute.
You know, we've
been so conditioned
to think that we're just this
little tiny dot of nothingness
and we're insignificant.
But in the cosmic scheme of
things, we are everything.
And if we focus our attention
on our flesh and blood bodies,
and our material
existence, we will
continue to feed that kind
of dark side program that
says that we're powerless
and insignificant.
But if we start to
focus on our true nature
as light beings of
celestial origin,
then we realize, hey,
wait a minute, I'm
an unlimited being who
allowed myself to incarnate
in this limited existence
for whatever reason,
to work out karma as a messenger
of love from the creator,
or whatever, and I have
the capability within me
to return to my state
of unlimited being--
now we start to activate
our ascension intelligence.
>>NOORY: Will this
make us immortal?
Will we live forever?
>>HENRY: We don't
want to be immortal.
We don't want to
achieve immortality.
Immortality means
we're going to be
trapped in this realm longer.
This is what Silicon Valley
promotes, that hey, you
want to live 1,000 years.
Well, yeah, maybe I do.
But what I really want
is to become an ascended
being where I have my
full cosmic consciousness
like the angels,
like the saints.
Every one of us is
capable of attaining
that level of consciousness.
>>NOORY: Well, there is a
Christian way of ascension
as well.
>>HENRY: Yes.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Think of this, too, Jesus'
ascension, now, in his body,
ascending to Heaven.
It doesn't mean a space
trip like up into the sky.
What it means is the translation
of this earthly reality
into the heavenly dimension.
And notice how the
ascension of Jesus
is correlated to Pentecost,
the descent of the Holy Spirit.
As something of Earth goes
up into the heavenly realm,
something of Heaven comes
down to the earthly realm.
It's the meeting of
Heaven and Earth,
the transfiguration
of Earth by Heaven.
That's what's at stake in both
the ascension and in Pentecost.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: I like
the way you explain
the Jesus ascension a little
better than the priest did.
>>HENRY: Yeah.
What he's describing there
comes from the Essenes.
And they were
master scholars who
were working on this idea of how
we go from a caterpillar form,
analogously, into
our butterfly form.
And that's what the ascension
represents with Jesus,
is he's gone from the
caterpillar or pupal phase
into the butterfly
form, the fully--
>>NOORY: Great analogy.
>>HENRY: But the problem
is that many of us
hear about that, well,
only Jesus did that.
That's traditional Christianity.
>>NOORY: And we can't do that.
>>HENRY: You can't do that.
But whereas Gnostic
Christianity and the Essenes
said, everybody can do this.
And if everybody
starts working on this,
we will completely
transform our planet.
We'll take back the power
from the powers that be.
In the time of
Jesus, it was Rome.
In our current era, it's maybe
technology, maybe a new world
order or something like that.
But the answer is
always that all of us
can access this deep
reservoir of spiritual power.
>>NOORY: William, isn't there
something wrong on this planet,
though?
There's so much bitterness.
There's so much hatred.
There's so much violence.
What's wrong?
>>HENRY: Well, yeah.
Exactly.
>>NOORY: They're not doing
what you've been saying.
>>HENRY: No, they're not.
And this is where people
develop--and this is based
on an ancient idea-- that there
are entities that have entered
into human consciousness or the
human thought sphere that seeks
to keep us at odds with one
another in order to harvest,
maybe, an energy from us
or something like that,
or benefit.
>>NOORY: Destroy us?
>>HENRY: Or ultimately--
well, they probably
don't want to destroy us.
They view Earth as a
farm, a plantation,
and we're sort of producers
of an energetic substance
that they can harvest.
>>NOORY: Are you a believer
in extraterrestrial life
in this universe?
>>HENRY: Absolutely.
Absolutely.
>>NOORY: Do you
think they're going
through the exact same
things, the growing pains
that we're going through?
>>HENRY: Absolutely.
I'm a big proponent of
the Tibetan tradition,
the light body tradition.
And they tell us that
our sun and planet
is linked to 13 star systems
that have gone through exactly
the same cycle of
evolution, and that beings
are coming and going from
these various star systems
to assist us in our
spiritual development.
>>NOORY: Why does it seem that
our ancients were a little more
adept at this than we are today?
>>HENRY: Well, when you
look back at those stories,
we're always glorifying
certain of these individuals.
But life was just as
tough then as it is now.
But again--
>>NOORY: But they seemed
to be into this more.
Like you mentioned the
Buddhists and people from Tibet,
they seemed to understand this.
They wrote the book
"The Tibetan Book
of the Dead," "The
Egyptian Book of the Dead."
They understood ascension.
I don't think most
people understand.
>>HENRY: That's
changing, though.
>>NOORY: You feel it changing?
>>HENRY: Absolutely.
And this is what I
was saying earlier,
where now, for the
first time in history,
you've got millions of people
practicing yoga, meditating.
This is all part
of the ascension.
This is what they're
actually aiming for.
They're not just--
in the moment they're
looking for relaxation
and stillness
and to tap personal power.
But the ultimate fulfillment
of what they're doing
is the ascension of
themselves as individuals
and also all of
humanity collectively.
>>NOORY: What does
it mean by raising
your frequency for ascension?
>>HENRY: Well, raising your
frequency is a convenient way
for us to talk about this.
In Nashville, where
I live, there's
a famous writer
named Dave Ramsey.
He teaches people how
to get out of debt.
>>NOORY: Oh, that's the
economic Dave Ramsey.
We know Dave.
He's got as much radio
affiliates as I have.
Geez.
>>HENRY: Absolutely.
Powerful.
And it's easy for people to
know when they get out of debt
because they can look
at their bank balance
and they have more money, right?
So as you start to ascend,
then how can you equate that?
And that's part of what
I've been challenged
with as a teacher of
ascension, if you will,
is how does someone
know when they're
raising their frequency?
And the idea that I
offer is that, based
on an ancient story,
the Epic of Gilgamesh,
we're told that all of us
are 2/3 divine and 1/3 human.
So if a fully developed human
is symbolized by a circle--
and that's what
wholeness represents,
is a circle-- and a circle is
360 degrees, then 2/3 divide
means 290 out of 360, right?
So we all start out
basically around 290,
at the frequency
of 290, which means
that mentally, physically,
spiritually and emotionally,
we're all doing certain things
that reflect our life at 290.
My challenge to people
is to say, well,
if you were at, say,
310 on that scale,
would you be doing
the same things
you do you're doing now
mentally, physically,
spiritually, and emotionally?
And the answer is no.
You would be doing
different things.
You would raise your frequency.
You would change the
food that you're eating,
the thoughts that
you're thinking,
the physical actions
that you're doing,
the emotions that
you're feeling.
So if you want to
raise your frequency,
go into your imagination and
think, well, when I'm at 310
on that scale, what
will I be doing?
What will I be eating?
What will I be thinking?
What will I be reading?
>>NOORY: And how do
you get to that 310?
>>HENRY: You start
doing those things
that you know you'll be
doing when you're at 310.
>>NOORY: Are there any
obstacles, William,
to ascension, that hold us back?
>>HENRY: No, just ourselves.
It's purely about belief.
>>NOORY: We do it to ourselves.
>>HENRY: Yeah, we
do it to ourselves.
We self-limit ourselves.
We're God given,
unlimited beings,
but we decide through
our consciousness,
you'll never get me up
in one of those things.
Can you tell if you
meet somebody instantly
if they are in that ascension
mode by their personality?
>>HENRY: You can.
Yeah, I mean there is
definitely a certain vibrance
that you're going to
detect, maybe a charisma.
>>NOORY: Upbeat people,
generally, are more into this--
>>HENRY: Absolutely,
absolutely, absolutely.
>>NOORY: Than negative
people, psychic vampires,
things like that.
>>HENRY: Yeah.
I mean, a positive
outlook is definitely
a hallmark of a person
on the path of ascension.
How much has to do with
just being a good person?
>>HENRY: Everything.
Ultimately, that's
what it's all about.
Every spiritual tradition, you
don't have to float in mid air.
What you want to
focus on is having
a pure heart, a light heart.
>>HENRY: You call this
"our beautiful moment."
What exactly is that?
>>HENRY: Well, we're
at this time in history
where we are the
bridge between the past
and all of future humanity.
The decisions that
we're making right now
will affect humans
for all eternity.
Whether we decide to link with
the artificial intelligence
machines and forever
change ourselves
by packing our flesh
with technology,
or whether we
decide to take more
of the spiritual or
yogic path, that decision
is going to greatly
impact all future beings.
And that's why I call this
"our beautiful moment."
I don't see it as a dark moment.
I see it as a very powerful
choice that's been given to us.
>>NOORY: You're excited
about this moment.
>>HENRY: Very excited.
I mean, truly grateful to
be alive at this moment,
and to be thinking about
this, and talking about it,
and assisting people in
making that decision.
>>NOORY: Can any of
this backfire on us?
I hate to throw in
a cog here in this,
but can anything go wrong?
>>HENRY: Well, I feel that if we
follow the spiritual path, no,
nothing will go wrong,
because our intention is
to move ourselves forward into
a more whole and holy species.
>>NOORY: You have done
extensive work in this field
all your life.
For you personally, what
has it done for you?
>>HENRY: Well, it's given
me a lot of confidence
in the belief that life
goes on, and that each
of my individual
thoughts matter.
What I do makes a difference.
And as individuals
really begin to believe
that about themselves, you
become more self-responsible.
You become more self-aware.
And ultimately that leads to
your own self-realization,
the fulfillment of
your true capability.
I don't want to look back and
say, oh, I wish I had done this
or I wish I had done that.
>>NOORY: From the
Smithsonian art museum,
there is a curator
who gets this.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- You are looking
at the final oil
study by Constantino Brumidi
for the monumental painted dome
in the United States Capitol
here in Washington, DC.
Brumidi was awarded
what was then
the most ambitious and
expensive commission
of a federal work of art.
In it, he shows the apotheosis
of George Washington placed
with allegories representing the
future prospects for the United
States.
Brumidi had the proper
training for this.
Born and raised
in Europe, he was
steeped in the European
tradition of large scale
allegorical paintings in
churches and state buildings.
Here he presents
George Washington
as the father of
our country, flanked
by the allegorical figures
of liberty and freedom.
He is surrounded by
vignettes extolling
the virtues of
American invention
and forward-looking
progress, but he also
is surmounted by 13 allegorical
figures, each of which
represents one of the
13 original colonies.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: You were
there on Coast to Coast
looking up at the
dome, weren't you?
>>HENRY: Yeah.
I decoded all the ascension
symbolism in the dome.
I worked very closely with Dr.
Barbara Walden, the curator
of the United States Capitol.
And she gave me free
range in the capitol
because at our first
meeting she said,
we know there are mysteries
about this fresco that you're
looking at here,
and in the capitol,
and we're happy to let
you wander around--
>>NOORY: They didn't know
what it was, though, did they?
>>HENRY: No, they didn't.
And that's why they
liked my approach to it.
And when I came in one
day with an image--
see, George Washington on the
rainbow is an ascended being.
And I matched that together
with the Christian images
of the ascended
Jesus on a rainbow.
And Dr. Walden's eyes
got big as saucers.
She's like, how come we've
never seen this before?
>>NOORY: And how come they knew
about it then and we had to--
look at all the years
it took for someone
like you to decipher it.
>>HENRY: Right.
And Constantino Brumidi is a
very interesting character.
He had been trained
by the Vatican,
and he knew all the
Vatican secrets.
And he ended up coming to
America with those secrets
and painted those in the
dome of the US capitol.
That ascension dome is one of
the key alchemical diagrams
of all time and actually
encodes the secrets about humans
transform themselves
into angels,
which is the ultimate
liberty that we all share.
That's what the founding
fathers were talking about.
>>NOORY: Would the Sistine
Chapel be the same?
>>HENRY: The Sistine Chapel is
definitely a place of secrets.
Michelangelo's
paintings in there,
frescoes, are
absolutely mind blowing.
I love visiting the Vatican.
I love all of Italy.
It's just a great
philosopher stone, in a way.
>>NOORY: If we reach this
higher state of consciousness--
>>HENRY: When.
>>NOORY: When-- that's
a little more positive--
what happens to us?
>>HENRY: Well, suddenly
there's an explosion
of our consciousness.
And it's going to be rather
like Edwin Hubble when he first
pointed his telescope
at the Andromeda nebula
and realized that it was a
whole separate galaxy from ours.
>>NOORY: And they went crazy.
>>HENRY: And then
they went crazy.
And now we know there's as
many as a trillion galaxies.
100 years ago they
didn't know this.
And I think spiritually, we're
on the verge of something
like that, incomprehensible
to us at this moment
just as it was incomprehensible
100 years ago, that there's
a trillion galaxies
out there full of life.
And so now with this
spiritual transformation
that we're talking
about, it's going
to be something like that.
What exactly it is I
can't say for sure,
but it's going to be on
that order of magnitude,
where 50 years from now
people look back and go,
you didn't know blah blah blah?
And now we know we're part of
this wondrous living universe.
>>NOORY: Will we end up
without physical bodies
if we keep ascending
to this level?
>>HENRY: Yes.
That is the ultimate
goal of ascension,
is to transcend the
flesh and blood body.
But the idea is that once
you attain this ascension,
you can phase back and forth
into your physical body
any time you like.
>>NOORY: So there'll still be
need for the physical world.
>>HENRY: Angels don't have sex.
>>NOORY: Poor angels.
>>HENRY: Right.
And so the idea is
that they'd like
to incarnate in
the physical body
because there's
physical pleasures.
There's things
you can experience
in this beautiful planet that
you can't experience anywhere
else in the universe.
That's what makes
it so precious.
That's why souls
line up to come here.
Our friend Dannion
Brinkley has said
there's probably as many as--
there's billions of
souls that are lined up
trying to get into
one of these bodies.
That makes us very special.
>>NOORY: Are they
all good souls?
>>HENRY: Maybe, maybe not.
Maybe, maybe not.
>>NOORY: In Lourdes-- there
was a story, of course,
in France, of Bernadette.
An incredible story.
Very young girl.
[BEGIN VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Many people who are
sick come to Lourdes, even
the physically healthy.
Everyone has something to heal.
- Hardly had I taken
off my first stocking
when I heard a noise as
if a sudden wind blew.
I turned my head and
looked at the meadow,
and I saw that the
trees were still.
I went on taking
off my stocking,
and again, I heard
the same sound.
As I lifted up my head
to look at the grotto,
I saw a lady dressed in white.
She wore a white dress,
an equally white veil,
a blue belt, and a
yellow rose on each foot.
- Above the right side of
the cave, surrounded by ivy,
is a crevice.
Bernadette sees a
young woman there.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: So what
Bernadette was describing
was a visualization of
the blessed Virgin Mary.
>>HENRY: In her light body.
>>NOORY: In her light body.
>>HENRY: Mary was the
first Christian to ascend.
Jesus ascended into
his Resurrection body
and transmitted the vibration
of it to the Virgin Mary.
And what Bernadette--
my belief, my research
shows that what
Mary manifested--
when she manifested
to Bernadette,
she was in her light body form.
Once these beings
achieve this ascension,
they can pop into our
realm, and they often
appear as these
bright white beings
of light, the lady in white.
>>NOORY: Did people believe
Bernadette at the time?
>>HENRY: Yes, they
did, matter of fact.
And then the Vatican came in
and validated her experience.
And now millions of people
go to Lourdes every year.
My wife Clare and I
lead tours to Lourdes.
Clare went there--
>>NOORY: It's got healing
properties, doesn't it?
>>HENRY: Yes.
Clare, my wife, went there
10 years ago in a wheelchair
and came out walking.
>>NOORY: No.
>>HENRY: And this is
recorded over and over again.
And the reason why,
George-- and this
is why we're so intrigued
about going to Lourdes--
is because what the Tibetans
teach, and others, tell
us is that in their
ascended form,
these light beings can infuse
whole areas like Lourdes
with this healing vibration.
Not only can you heal
the body, but you
can raise its
frequency, and even
tap into the frequency
of the light body.
>>NOORY: Is there
something in the water?
>>HENRY: Yes.
Yes, that was part of
the story of Bernadette,
is that Mary manifested this
spring where there was none,
and it became a gusher
of this healing water.
And now people go to be
baptized in this water.
The same thing was
supposed to have happened
at the baptism of Jesus,
where the divine spirit,
the Holy Spirit, infused
the River Jordan,
and then that frequency spread
out from the River Jordan
into all the rivers and
oceans of the Earth.
>>NOORY: That's dramatic.
Thousands of people go there.
Millions of people go there.
>>HENRY: Millions every year.
It's the third most
popular destination
in the world every year.
>>NOORY: Are most people
cured from their illnesses
and ailments?
>>HENRY: I don't know
what the number is,
but the testimonials
are dramatic.
>>NOORY: Of course, even if
one got cured it's a miracle.
>>HENRY: It's so exciting.
Even if it's a placebo of the
power of human consciousness,
the collective--
>>NOORY: I was going
to ask you that.
>>HENRY: Yeah, you go to Lourdes
and it's so beautiful there.
You're in the backdrop
of the Pyrenees,
and it's a spectacular place
to visit in and of itself.
But then you add
this layer of Mary
infusing it with the
frequency of the light body,
putting in this healing
frequency and more.
There's probably
multiple bandwidths
that she's
broadcasting on there,
or infused the land with,
that you can tap into.
The placebo effect, to some
people who may not know,
is where you basically
give somebody
a sugar pill in a
test study, where
they don't have the
actual medicine,
but they think they do.
They're not sure.
And they still get cured.
It's the body's ability
to take care of itself.
>>HENRY: Yeah, it's power
of belief, mind over matter,
basically.
And that's foundational
to the work
that Clare and I did here on
Gaia in our TV show, our show
Arcanum, showing all this
artwork where the belief is
that just by looking
at this painting,
your brain is linking with
these ascended beings,
and you're tapping into it.
>>NOORY: It's
amazing how it works.
>>HENRY: It's beautiful,
the power of the mind
to manipulate and suggest.
>>HENRY: Yes, exactly.
>>NOORY: Where are we
headed with all this
as a human species?
>>HENRY: Well, we're headed to--
a term they use is
singularity, a moment
where it rapidly
accelerates and then it
flips into something that's
incomprehensible to us right
now.
And that's why we have so
much turmoil in our world
right now, because we're
racing to this moment, which
is less than--
I believe less
than 10 years away.
I think 2020 is the next
real milestone where
we're going to see even more
dramatic positive change.
>>NOORY: Do you see a planet
of non-wars, non-conflicts?
Or will this continue?
>>HENRY: I hope so.
I mean, the powers
that be certainly
are heavily invested in war.
They make so much
money off of it.
And what the people
have to do is find a way
to demilitarize the planet.
And that's what this movement
is about in the spiritual area,
where people are
doing their yoga
and meditation to flip the
consciousness of the planet.
And I believe that power
is more powerful than even
nuclear weapons.
>>NOORY: What is
the best technique
for people to get into
this ascension mode?
>>HENRY: Well, the
best technique is to--
I encourage people to put three
words in their vocabulary.
It's an easy place to start.
Say yes to our positive
potential, our ascension.
Start using the word love more.
Love yourself, love one another.
And the word victory
is very powerful.
And to lock on to
what is victory
for me as an individual
and victory for us
as the human species?
>>NOORY: At least you didn't say
things like, I want or give me.
It's more of a
giving type thing.
>>HENRY: It's all about giving.
Yeah, exactly, because you
can't take it with you.
>>NOORY: And what
about little children?
Are they born with this?
I was talking about my little
granddaughter and how magical
she seems to be.
Nobody taught her anything.
She just had it.
>>HENRY: Right,
she's a little guru.
No, I mean, I spend a
lot of time these days,
George, in airports and
out in public just looking
in the eyes of babies.
And I see so much hope.
You always see hope
in the eyes of a baby.
But I look at them
and I think, golly,
do we really want to
turn you into a cyborg?
Did you come into this
planet at this time
to be turned into a machine?
And the answer that I get is no.
So that means that these
souls, these beings,
your grandchildren and
all the other young ones
are here for a very
special purpose.
And I think what
we have to do is
try to help them to access
that and develop that.
>>NOORY: If you could
instantly wave a magic wand
around this planet,
what would you be doing?
What would you be asking for?
>>HENRY: Oh, well,
of course, it would
have to start with more love.
And just to let individuals
live and let live.
Just let people be.
Don't try to have to enforce
your ideas or your opinions
on them.
Just let everybody
develop themselves
as they're meant to be.
>>NOORY: William, thanks
for being on Beyond Belief.
>>HENRY: My pleasure, George.
>>NOORY: And more
importantly, if people
need to get a hold of
you, give us your website.
>>HENRY: My website
is williamhenry.net.
>>NOORY: And you
continue giving people
the answers to that thing
that's missing, sometimes,
within each other.
>>HENRY: Yeah.
And it's that
sense of wholeness.
That's what we're all going
for, that missing piece.
>>NOORY: He's been a great
guest for us for so many years.
You can watch him on Gaia TV.
And more importantly,
listen to some of the things
that he's told us
today about how
we can ascend, how
we can become better
human beings in an environment,
in a world that needs it
more now than ever before.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching Beyond Belief.